Create high level overview doc for MVUX (#2062)
unoplatform/uno.extensions: doc/Overview/Mvux/RootOverview.md

> # MVUX Framework Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
uid: Uno.Extensions.Reactive.Overview.Short
---

# MVUX Framework Overview
```

MVUX, a powerful state management system, seamlessly combines the strengths of both MVU (Model-View-Update) and MVVM (Model-View-ViewModel) architectures. This document presents a brief yet comprehensive overview of the key advantages MVUX offers, along with a simplified example demonstrating its efficiency in building applications.

## Key Advantages of MVUX
### 1. Reactive Application Development

MVUX empowers developers to create highly responsive applications that automatically react to state changes, effortlessly updating the view. This reactivity ensures a dynamic and engaging user experience.

### 2. Immutable Models for Stability

Building on the concept of immutability, MVUX simplifies the creation of models that maintain coherent states in multi-threaded environments. This approach enhances stability and predictability in complex application scenarios.

### 3. Asynchronous Everywhere

> MVUX takes care of executing all non-UI-related operations on a background thread without requiring developers to write boilerplate code, such as INotifyPropertyChanged. With native support for common data states, users are informed of background data fetching or error occurrences, contributing to a seamless user experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MVUX takes care of executing all non-UI-related operations on a background thread without requiring developers to write boilerplate code, such as `INotifyPropertyChanged`. With native support for common data states, users are informed of background data fetching or error occurrences, contributing to a seamless user experience.
```

### 4. Code Testability

> The MVUX framework promotes test-driven development by decoupling presentation logic from the view. This separation facilitates the testing of code components, ensuring robust and reliable applications.

Reviewer 2: If we have a page that explains how to test, let's add a link.

Author: Not yet, cretead an issue for that https://github.com/unoplatform/uno.extensions/issues/2066

### 5. Declarative Code Friendly

Express your code's intentions more clearly with MVUX's declarative approach. The framework encourages writing code in a declarative fashion, enhancing readability and maintainability.

## Quick Start: Building a Counter App

To illustrate the simplicity and power of MVUX, let's explore building a basic counter application. Below is a minimal model for a counter:

```csharp
public partial record CounterModel
{
    public IState<int> Counter => State.Value(this, () => 0);

    public IState<int> Step => State.Value(this, () => 42);

>     public async ValueTask Increment(int step) 
>         => await Counter.Update(i => i + step);

Author: ```suggestion
    public async ValueTask Increment(int step, CancellationToken ct) 
        => await Counter.Update(i => i + step, ct);
```

> }

Reviewer 2: We should add a piece of XAML or C# markup to explain how to actually use this model.

Author: Would agree, but I feel this could add some noise.

If we decide to go forward with this, we need to make sure that it's the same XAML as in the sample ... like this model BTW (functional is here, needs some naming updates.)

```

Key Features in the Code:

> * **Reactive Properties**: Counter and Step are exposed as plain binding-friendly integer properties to the view, supporting two-way data binding. Updates are reported on the UI thread for the view and on the background thread for the model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Reactive Properties**: `Counter` and `Step` are exposed as plain binding-friendly integer properties to the view, supporting two-way data binding. Updates are reported on the UI thread for the view and on the background thread for the model.
```

> * **Command Handling**: The Increment method is automatically exposed as an ICommand to the view, enabling seamless integration with ButtonBase elements. Additionally, ICommand.CanExecute allows intelligent button state management during execution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Command Handling**: The `Increment` method is automatically exposed as an `ICommand` to the view, enabling seamless integration with `ButtonBase` elements. Additionally, `ICommand.CanExecute` allows intelligent button state management during execution.
```

> * **Parameter Flexibility**: The method accepts a step parameter, which can be provided by the view using the command parameter. If not provided, it defaults to the Step state, offering flexibility and consistency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Parameter Flexibility**: The method accepts a step parameter, which can be provided by the view using the command parameter. If not provided, it defaults to the `Step` state, offering flexibility and consistency.
```

> MVUX empowers developers to implement the presentation layer quickly and efficiently, allowing a primary focus on business logic. For a more in-depth exploration, consult the comprehensive [MVUX documentation](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/external/uno.extensions/doc/Overview/Mvux/Overview.html).

Reviewer 2: use xref instead of the address

Author: ```suggestion
MVUX empowers developers to implement the presentation layer quickly and efficiently, allowing a primary focus on business logic. For a more in-depth exploration, consult the comprehensive [MVUX documentation](xref:Overview.Mvux.Overview).
```

---
uid: Uno.Extensions.Reactive.Overview.Short
---

# MVUX Framework Overview

> MVUX, a powerful state management system, seamlessly combines the strengths of both MVU (Model-View-Update) and MVVM (Model-View-ViewModel) architectures. This document presents a brief yet comprehensive overview of the key advantages MVUX offers, along with a simplified example demonstrating its efficiency in building applications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Model-View-Update-eXtended (MVUX) combines the strengths of both Model-View-Update (MVU) and Model-View-ViewModel (MVVM) architectures. This document presents an overview of the key advantages MVUX offers, along with an example demonstrating its efficiency for building applications.
```

## Key Advantages of MVUX
### 1. Reactive Application Development

> MVUX empowers developers to create highly responsive applications that automatically react to state changes, effortlessly updating the view. This reactivity ensures a dynamic and engaging user experience.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure what this actually tells me as the reader about MVUX?

Author: The idea was to explain at high level what is reactive programming (_"react to state changes"_) and its benefits (avoid stale data in the view).

What about:
```suggestion
MVUX employs reactive programming, automating UI updates in response to changes in application state, ensuring a dynamic and responsive user experience with simplified code.
```

### 2. Immutable Models for Stability

Building on the concept of immutability, MVUX simplifies the creation of models that maintain coherent states in multi-threaded environments. This approach enhances stability and predictability in complex application scenarios.

### 3. Asynchronous Everywhere

> MVUX takes care of executing all non-UI-related operations on a background thread without requiring developers to write boilerplate code, such as `INotifyPropertyChanged`. With native support for common data states, users are informed of background data fetching or error occurrences, contributing to a seamless user experience.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
MVUX takes care of executing all non-UI-related operations on a background thread without requiring developers to write boilerplate code, such as implementing `INotifyPropertyChanged`. With native support for common data states, users are informed of background data fetching or error occurrences, contributing to a seamless user experience.
```

### 4. Code Testability

The MVUX framework promotes test-driven development by decoupling presentation logic from the view. This separation facilitates the testing of code components, ensuring robust and reliable applications.

### 5. Declarative Code Friendly

Express your code's intentions more clearly with MVUX's declarative approach. The framework encourages writing code in a declarative fashion, enhancing readability and maintainability.

## Quick Start: Building a Counter App

To illustrate the simplicity and power of MVUX, let's explore building a basic counter application. Below is a minimal model for a counter:

> ```csharp

Reviewer 3: I think we need to show the corresponding XAML and/or C# markup so that the user can understand how this is data bound to the UI

> ```csharp
> public partial record CounterModel
> {
>     public IState<int> Counter => State.Value(this, () => 0);
> 
>     public IState<int> Step => State.Value(this, () => 42);
> 
>     public async ValueTask Increment(int step, CancellationToken ct) 
>         => await Counter.Update(i => i + step, ct);
> }
> ```

Author: ```suggestion
```csharp
internal partial record MainModel
{
    public IState<int> Count => State.Value(this, () => 0);

    public IState<int> Step => State.Value(this, () => 1);

    public ValueTask IncrementCommand(int Step, CancellationToken ct)
            => Count.Update(c => c + Step, ct);
}
```

and here the corresponding view:

```xml
<StackPanel VerticalAlignment="Center">
	<TextBox
		Margin="12"
		HorizontalAlignment="Center"
		PlaceholderText="Step Size"
		Text="{Binding Step, Mode=TwoWay}"
		TextAlignment="Center" />

	<TextBlock
		Margin="12"
		HorizontalAlignment="Center"
		TextAlignment="Center">
		<Run Text="Counter: " /><Run Text="{Binding Count}" />
	</TextBlock>

	<Button
		Margin="12"
		HorizontalAlignment="Center"
		Command="{Binding IncrementCommand}"
		Content="Increment Counter by Step Size" />
</StackPanel>
```
```

Key Features in the Code:

* **Reactive Properties**: `Counter` and `Step` are exposed as plain binding-friendly integer properties to the view, supporting two-way data binding. Updates are reported on the UI thread for the view and on the background thread for the model.

> * **Command Handling**: The `Increment` method is automatically exposed as an `ICommand`  that can be data bound to any element in the view that has a `Command` property, such as `Button`. Additionally, `ICommand.CanExecute` is updated during execution of the method, so that state of the data bound element is correct.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **Command Handling**: The `Increment` method is automatically exposed as an `ICommand`  that can be data bound to any element in the view that has a `Command` property, such as `Button`. Additionally, `ICommand.CanExecute` is updated during the execution of the method, so that the state of the data bound element is correct.
```

> * **Command Handling**: The `Increment` method is automatically exposed as an `ICommand`  that can be data bound to any element in the view that has a `Command` property, such as `Button`. Additionally, `ICommand.CanExecute` is updated during the execution of the method, so that the state of the data bound element is correct.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Command Handling**: The `IncrementCommand` method is automatically exposed as an `ICommand`  that can be data bound to any element in the view that has a `Command` property, such as `Button`. Additionally, `ICommand.CanExecute` is updated during the execution of the method, so that the state of the data bound element is correct.
```
